#Week 1
Jan 30. (2 hrs) I am writing my first journal entry in Git. Like, I'm actually using Git to write it. I have created the txt throgh the TOUCH command, which should have created the journal.txt where this copy is going. So far today, I have been fooling around with creating new directories, and creating files within those directories. During class, I was unable to launch GIT because I was using my Chromebook. I took most of my notes in a text document through an app Chromebook offers. It has proved mostly useless in this endeavor so I revisited the training materials on the Syllabus page within GitHub. I had some trouble with the mv command initially. I was using the > symbol to attempt to move a file from one directory to another, which was creating errors. I eventually figured out that I don't need any characters (besides a space) between the file to be moved and the location. My foo.txt file has now bounced around every folder on my Desktop, so it's met all of my CV materials, freelance work, homework for other programs, and my chaotic mess of downloads in my Desktop downloads folder. I am about to echo this text into my newly created journal.txt to see how this populates.

It worked, albeit crudely. I am now writing this within Notepad. I had to word wrap the content I wrote above. Is there a way to force word wrapping upon export from Git? I'll ask that in class next week. 

So I just tried to add to this text document, via another echo prompt, and it deleted everything within and replaced it with the new echo. I presume there's a way to add to the copy without deleting the existing content. I'll dig around Google and report back to this simple text document.


Jan 31. (1 hr) I have been fooling around more with moving files, and had some difficulties as I started trying to do more things. I realized most of the tutorials I was reading were about how to move file from the directory I am in, into a subdirectory within that same main directory. I was trying to move files a directory backwards in the heirachy and it kept telling me the directory doesn't exist. This wasn't something I had tried yesterday. After futher sleuthing on Google and stackoverflow, I realized in need to use the ~ symbol, then spell out the precise location of the directory. I created a "filedance.txt" and bounced it around my entire computer without having to jump into a folder then a subfolder. This felt like a good exercise in learning how my harddrive is mapped out. 

Feb 2. (2 hrs) I continued with working on command line functions and feel pretty confident in the basics of how to emulate my capabilities in windows explorer through bash. After a bit of fooling around there, I downloaded VS Studio, which I was unable to do in class due to having the wrong computer. I'm not really sure what it is -- or what to do with it. I may have missed something. I am pretty familiar with Jupyter Notebooks and Watson Studio, from having taken a Python programming class on Coursera, and this reminds me of both. But, I don't see any authoring interface. It seems that I need to import file types for it to work. I'll probably watch a youtube tutorial on it later. 

Feb 5 (1 hr). I started trying to use the "grep" command to search files and I keep getting stuck within some processes. I learned about Cntrl+C to get out of that -- which took me a while to realize I was even stuck. I'm started looking through the syllabus and noticed that we were supposed to have learned a few things about searching CSV files. I may have spaced out during this part of the class, but I didn't remember learning this. I'm actually taking a statistics class right now in my other masters program at Hunter College, so I loaded a spss dataset into my projects folder and converted it to xlsx. I ran a "cat" command on the dataset and it created a wild array of corrupted characters scrolling through my window. That's another thing I would like to learn more about in the next class -- the way Git can work with datasets. 

#Week 2
Feb 15. (2.5 hrs) -- Unfortunately, I haven't had much time to work on my coding chops this week -- so I decided to cram a bit today to catch up. I started with doing the crash course linked in the HW to freshen up on what we went over last week in class. I found that I forgot how to get things into Git, so after messing around with the files directory, I read up on that again. I also attempted to work on this document through VS code at first -- then got worried I was going to lose my place or overwrite what I had done (I realized that in class, we only uploaded our goals -- not our journal -- so I wanted to make sure I didn't delete two weeks worth of work). After feeling more confident about uploading and using VS code, I started going through the next items on the list:
-I installed Anaconda
-I installed Python 2.73, which I think is the version that the "Hard Way" blog wanted me to use
-I installed ATOM

Off the bat, I am a bit confused by the tutorial telling me to use the native Windows terminal -- I figure I am supposed to use Git Bash for this purpose. I plan to look more deeply into that tomorrow. 

Feb 16 (1.5 hrs) -- I had a lot of trouble figuring out how to get Python to run. I attempted to follow the instructions to use PowerShell, but I was continually told that the action was not allowed, or that I do not have permission. I remember in class seeing you (Professor Symth) just type "Python" and the terminal seemed to know to suddenly switch to reading Python code. This hasn't been working with all of the above applications installed. Thus, I tried to follow the Linux commands, assuming they would mimic the Bash protocol. 

I found a tutorial online that said to place my Python 2.73 into a directory on my computer then run that directory's path via "export PATH=". This approach seemed to execute a loop or a program of some sort, as I got locked into a situation where the ">" sign appeared below the code, but it didn't follow the steps outlined in the tutorial. I used Ctrl+C to kill the program/loop. 

Feb 18. Decided I would start today by uploading what was in my journal to Git, and immediately ran into all sorts of issues. I think I forgot an essential command, and the command tutorials (and Google!) have been of little help. I ran "git init," which seemed to successfully connect me to my Hub. From there, I have tried a few other commands to upload my journal to the Hub "Git add journal.txt,"  "git add .", "git push journal.txt," and "git push .". All of these either just sent me to a new command line or gave me a long error message. I have searched for resolutions and haven't found anything spelling out the step I am missing (or whatever else i am doing wrong). 

I tried to rename the file to a _md file to align with what we uploaded in class but continued to run into the same issues. 


#Week 3
Feb 20 (2 hrs) -- I have previously worked on Python and yesterday's class was a helpful refresher. I was a little confused in class because I thought lists couldnt be altered, but I dug into my notes from my Coursera class and found I was mixing lists up with 'tuples.' After seeing how easy it was to create a mini-program from a list, and adding variables to the list, I don't totally get what purpose a tuple serves. It's probably beneficial for data analysis. I created a few programs similar to the one we designed in class through Idle. I tried to figure out other ways to get to Python through Git with no luck. 

Feb 22 (2 hrs) -- Just got the email regarding how to get Python to work in Git and uninstalled Anaconda. It seemingly installed a ton of other programs on my computer -- I'm not sure if I needed to uninstall all of them. After re-downloading the file, I checked the box that gave me the scary alerts. The Python verision is now displaying in Git. Now that this is working, I ran into a new complication: making Git's terminal a python terminal. When I type "Python" -- it just breaks to a new line. My Python commands do not seem to work the same way they do in Idle. I'm not totally sure if I am in Python. As such, I am back at 'Learning Python the Hard Way' and practicing more small program development. I think I'm hitting a bit of a roadblock by how much I can do in Idle, probably due to my lack of command/code knowledge

#Week 4
Feb 28 (3 hours) -- I was having trouble in class rectifying my GitHub with itself (i think that is the proper phrasing). When I decided to work on this all again, two days later, I figured I could at least figure out the issue with aligning my github with my directory on my PC. Alas, I seem to have created some versioning error that I am unable to fix no matter how much Googling. Thus, I will be working mainly offline with my journal this week. 

It only took me about an hour to realize that I couldn't figure out the GitHub versioning. Thus, I finally got to play around with Python now that it's working -- and it is really working! I had a little trouble at first because I am terrible at remembering steps without writing them down. And since this class is so focused on doing live work, I keep forgetting to take notes. However, I noticed I could "open recent" files in VS Code. This allowed me to access the codes we worked on in class and give myself a little refresher on a few things learned. 

The newest thing to me is the "input," which has potentially be covered in my Coursera intros to Python -- but I don't think I ever executed it. I played around with the weather app some more and added several other "else if" varibales such as "balmy," "arid," and "brick" and added my own CLEVER results. 

I created a short little program asking the subject to name 19th Century British poets. Wordsworth grants a "Eh, half right" while Byron, Shelley, and Keats grant a "Everyone knows that." While anyone else named grants a "Wow, you're a sophisticate." It could serve as a vital tool in studying for Jeopardy! in the future.

March 1 (2 hours) -- I focused my Sunday morning on going over the HTML stuff. Over 20 years ago, when I was about 16, I bought myself an HTML for dummies book and tried to build myself a few webpages without using any GUI tools. I think I eventually succeeded in making a page with a wallpaper background, a centered title, and a funny picture of Skeletor in the center. A lot of this was just a refresher to me. I don't even know how people input HTML these days. I remember Dreamweaver was big a few  years ago -- but I never used it. The resources reminded me a bit of how I've used Jupyter notebooks -- Cloud-based input solutions. Unlike Python, the HTML seems less fun to play around with. However, it's good to get re-acquainted with all the tags. I read and tried to execute all the tags in the provided links. I think it should be a solid starting point for the accessibility lab work this coming week. 

March 4 (1 hour)
Spent my morning before work practicing my python. The programs I wrote (poets.py and the updated weather.py) are running oddly. They execute a little differently than beforein VS code. There's a lot of added text when they provide the input. Then the input does repeat after I finish. I am getting an error when trying to run it through Bash.

#Week 5-9 (COVID Quarantine)
I definitely took some time off due to all the mayhem resulting from the pandemic.Although, as of March 30th (Saturday), I decided to dive back into my Python work. I was pretty interested in the work we did last class on creating a web crawler. I feel a little guilty that I suggested a site (Genius.com) that is protected against scraping. 

I think one of the things I like about Python is that it mimics some of the GUI protocols I'm used to. The find/replace function we ran to clean up the URLs was very intuitive. I can look at the code we did in class together, and even if I couldnt replicate it off the top of my head, I can understand what every line is doing. 

Yesterday, I dove back into my Coursera IBM Python coursework to 1) feel like I'm using my $30/mo subscription somewhat, and 2) learn a few more things that may give me some pointers for my final project in this class. The last time I worked on this, we had just started the process of using Pandas. So, I dove back in there -- and learned some simple processes with Pandas. I'm noticing a difference between the data science work and the software design work, is that the data science is far less focused on creation. After a few videos on Pandas, the tutorial jumped into NUMPYs, which showed me a variety of ways to manipulate data matrices. Although this is fairly useful for some of the stats work I do in my other masters program (ed psych), it's not showing me much in terms of how to produce something for my final project. 

My final project is going to attempt to create a MVP of a reading "leveler." That is, a program that can look at short reading passages and identify words that are above the reading level for the grade selected. For the sake of the MVP, I will start with the lowest grade available -- first grade. This way I only need to create a list of items that are "at" first grade level, and anything above will be flagged as problematic. 

From some research on the process, I think I would need to create a "dictionary" where I upload all of the words labeled as "Grade 1" in my leveling dictionary. Unfortunatley, the dictionarly primarily covers nouns, verbs, and adjectives -- and only in one form. So, I would need to run a script to additionally break down those words into their gerund forms (as well as plural, active, passive, etc.). From there, I would run a True/False for every word in a short passage that user can input (I'll set the max at 500 characters or so). Any word not in the dictionary should be flagged as FALSE and allow the user to know it needs to be replaced with some more simplistic. 

I don't think this product will have an opportunity to have much of a UX outside of a prompt in a command line. But, if there's some easy "shells" for a better UX, I would definitely like to look into that as well. I would work well as a webpage, because a tool like this should be something easily accessible to educators and educaitonal publishers. 





GOALS
1. To become comfortable with Python -- I've been very slowly going through a Python cert via coursera and due to other things getting in the way, I keep losing track of my progress and do not practice enough. I hope to change that as more practice is required for this class. 

2. I work as a technical content editor and writer; but mainly, my focus is on very boring stuff like psychometrics and assessment outcomes because I work at a boring educational research organization. I would like to have a stronger grounding in software documentation methods, and understand the steps to creating software better. 

3. I want to begin the process of creating a portfolio of creative digital work that I can expand upon after this class. I hope to learn enough in this class that I can start new projects on my own and tinker with them in my spare time. 

